In such environments, sparsity-inducing regularization methods---most prominently the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)---are widely used to select predictors and generate forecasts in finite samples.

This paper studies the equilibrium implications of such behavior.
Specifically, we ask: \emph{What are the asset-pricing consequences of investors who actively search for return predictability using high-dimensional, regularized learning rules, even when returns are unpredictable under rational expectations?}

We develop an equilibrium mechanism we term \emph{Lasso Trading}.
In the model, investors do not possess a structural theory linking fundamentals to returns.
Instead, they entertain the possibility that (log) returns are conditionally predictable from a large set of candidate predictors and estimate forecasting rules using LASSO \citep{Tibshirani1996}.
The central force is a feedback loop from learning to prices: the act of searching for predictability affects trading decisions and hence equilibrium returns.
As a result, the economy endogenously generates \emph{sparse and short-lived episodes of return predictability}, despite the absence of predictability under rational expectations.

The mechanism speaks directly to empirical evidence showing that return predictability is episodic, unstable, and concentrated in a small, shifting subset of predictors \citep{Chinco2019,Farmer2023}.
Our contribution is twofold.
First, we provide, to our knowledge, the first analytical characterization of LASSO-based learning in an equilibrium asset-pricing environment, thereby linking the macro-finance learning literature to the empirical tradition of high-dimensional return forecasting.
Second, the model delivers sharp, testable implications: predictability is (i) sparse, (ii) unstable over time, and (iii) more likely when estimation relies on short memory, weak penalization, and high return volatility.
We bring these predictions to the data using a large predictor set that includes text-based topics extracted from financial news \citep{Bybee2021}, and we estimate a structural feedback parameter governing how learning-induced beliefs map into realized returns.



\paragraph{Economic mechanism.}
LASSO learning creates a belief--price feedback loop.
When recent data make a predictor look informative, LASSO selects it and investors trade on the perceived signal.
Their demand moves prices in the direction implied by the forecast, so the perceived relationship becomes temporarily self-fulfilling in equilibrium.
As the window rolls forward, the estimated coefficient typically shrinks back toward zero, the predictor is dropped, and predictability dissipates.
As a result, predictability is sparse, episodic, and shifts across predictors over time.